

TrendingCollectionsBookmarksQuran trackerNew

Sign inSign up

Quran
Hadith
Articles
About

Home
Quran
About Surah At-Tur

About Surah At-Tur
Surah At-Tur is the 52nd surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Mountain. It has 49 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 27.
Quick summary
Surah #

52

Meaning

The Mountain

No. of ayaat

49

Revelation place

Makkah

Revelation order

76

Rukūʿ[1]

2 (Ayaah 28, 49)

Hizb break(s)

1 (Ayaah 23)

Juz / paara[2]

Juz 27 (Ayaat 1-49)

Manzil[3]

7

Page^

523 - 525(Open)

Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/52

[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1670/<default>=w

Introduction

This Meccan sûrah takes its name from verse 1, where Allāh swears by Mount Ṭûr, among other things, that the Day of Judgment is inevitable. The punishment of those skeptical of judgment is described, followed by a detailed description of the reward of the believers along with their offspring (verses17-28). Atheism is also rejected (verses 25-36). The Prophet ﷺ is reassured of Allāh's support, while the pagan beliefs and arguments are refuted both in this sûrah and the next.

Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān

Name
It is derived from the very first cord "WatTur-i."
Period of Revelation
From the internal evidence of the subject matter it appears that this Surah too was revealed in the same stage of the Holy Prophet's life at Makkah in which the Surah Adh-Dhariyat was revealed. While going through it one can clearly feel that during the period of its revelation the Holy Prophet (peace and bleesings of Allāh be upon him) was being showered with objections and accusations but there is no evidence yet to show that severe persecution of the Muslims had started.
Subject Matter and Topics
The subject matter of its first section (vv. 1-28) is the Hereafter. As arguments for its possibility, necessity and occurrence had already been given in Surah Adh-Dhariyat, these have not been repeated here. However, swearing an oath by some realities and signs which testify to the Hereafter, it has been stated most emphatically that it will surely come to pass, and none has the power to prevent its occurrence. Then, it has been stated as to what will be the fate of those who deny it when it actually occurs, and how will those who believe in it and adopt the way of piety and righteousness accordingly, be blessed by Allāh.

Then, in the second section (vv. 29-49) the (Quraish:>diQuraish) chiefs' attitude towards the message of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allāh he upon him) has been criticised. They called him a sorcerer, a madman, or a poet, and would thus mislead the common people against him so that they should not pay any serious attention to the message he preached. They looked upon him as a calamity that had suddenly descended on them and would openly wish that he met with a disaster so that they were rid of him. They accused him of fabricating the Qurʾān by himself and of presenting it in the name of Allāh, and this was, God forbid, a fraud that he was practising. They would often taunt him, saying that God could not have appointed an ordinary man like him to the office of Prophethood. They expressed great disgust at his invitation and message and would avoid him as if he was asking them for a reward for it. They would sit and take counsels together to devise schemes in order to put an end to his mission. And while they did all this they never realized what creeds of ignorance they were involved in and how selflessly and sincerely was Muḥammad (peace and blessings of Allāh be upon him) exerting himself to deliver tbem from their error. While criticising them for this attitude and conduct, Allāh has put them certain questions, one after the other, each of which is either an answer to some objection of theirs, or a criticism of some error. Then, it has been said that it would absolutely be of no avail to show them a miracle in order to convince them of his Prophethood, for they were such stubborn people as would misinterpret anything they were shown only to avoid affirming the faith.

In the beginning of this section as well as in its end, the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allāh be upon him) has been given the instruction that he should persistently continue giving his invitation and preaching his message in spite of the accusations and objections of his opponents and enemies, and should endure their resistance patiently till Allāh's judgement comes to pass. Besides, he has been consoled, as if to say "Your Lord has not left you alone to face your enemies, after raising you as a Prophet, but He is constantly watching over you. Therefore, endure every hardship patiently till the Hour of His judgement comes, and seek through praising and glorifying your Lord the power that is required for exerting in the cause of Allāh under such conditions.

PrivacyCopyrightContribute

Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools

Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more

Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen

Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections

© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com

About Surah At-Tur | Quran – Amrayn

