

TrendingCollectionsBookmarksQuran trackerNew

Sign inSign up

Quran
Hadith
Articles
About

Home
Quran
About Surah As-Saaffat

About Surah As-Saaffat
Surah As-Saaffat is the 37th surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means Those Who Set The Ranks. It has 182 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 23.
Quick summary
Surah #

37

Meaning

Those Who Set The Ranks

No. of ayaat

182

Revelation place

Makkah

Revelation order

56

Rukūʿ[1]

5 (Ayaah 21, 74, 113, 138, 182)

Hizb break(s)

3 (Ayaah 21, 82, 144)

Juz / paara[2]

Juz 23 (Ayaat 1-182)

Manzil[3]

6

Page^

446 - 452(Open)

Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/37

[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1655/<default>=w

Introduction

For the most part, this Meccan sûrah explains verse 31 from the previous sûrah: "Have the deniers not considered how many peoples We destroyed before them ...?". Hence, several examples of destroyed disbelievers are cited here, including the peoples of Noah, Lot, and Elias. Some basic truths are emphasized, including the oneness of Allāh, the Resurrection, and the prophethood of Muḥammad ﷺ . The pagans are criticized for calling the Prophet ﷺ 'a mad poet' and for claiming that the angels are Allāh's daughters. This sûrah provides more details on the punishment of the disbelievers and the reward of the believers in the Hereafter (verses 19-68). In conclusion, the Prophet ﷺ is reassured that Allāh's messengers always prevail.

Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān

Name
The name is derived from the word was saaffat with which the Surah begins.
Period of Revelation
The subject matter and the style show that this Surah probably was sent down in the middle of the Makkan period, or perhaps in the last stage of the middle Makkan period. The style clearly indicates that antagonism is raging strong in the background and the Holy Prophet and his Companions are passing through very difficult and discouraging circumstances.
Theme and Subject Matter
The dishelievers of Makkah have been severely warned for their attitude of mockery and derision with which they were responding to the Holy Prophet's message of Tauhid and the Hereafter and for their utter refusal to accept and acknowledge his claim to Prophethood. In the end, they have been plainly warned that the Prophet whom they are mocking and ridiculing will overwhelm them in spite of their power and pelf and they will find the army of Allāh encamping in the very courtyards of their houses (vv. 171-179. This notice was given at a time when there appeared no chance whatever of the Holy Prophet's success and triumph. The Muslims (who have been called Allāh's army in these verses) were being made the target of severe persecution. Three- fourths of their population had already emigrated and hardly 40 to 50 of the Companions were left with the Holy Prophet in Makkah who were experiencing all sorts of the excesses with utter helplessness. Under such circumstances, in view of the apparent conditions, no one could believe that the Holy Prophet and the handful of his ill equipped Companions would ultimately attain dominance. The people rather thought that the new movement would end and be buried in the ravines of Makkah. But hardly 15 to 16 years had passed when on the conquest of Makkah precisely the same thing happened of which the disbelievers had been forewarned. Along with administering warnings, Allāh in this Surah has done full justice also to the theme of inducement and instruction in a balanced way. Brief but impressive arguments have been given about the validity of the doctrines of Tauhid and the Hereafter. Criticism has been made of the creed of the mushrikin to show the absurdity of their beliefs; they have been informed of the evil consequences of their deviations, which have been contrasted with the splendid results of the faith and righteous acts. Then, in continuation of the same, Precedents from past history have been cited to show how Allāh had been treating His Prophets and their followers: how He has been favouring His faithful servants and punishing their deniers and rejectors.

The most instructive of the historical narratives presented in this Surah is the important event of the pious life of the Prophet Abraham, who became ready to sacrifice his only son as soon as he received an inspiration from Allāh. In this there was a lesson not only for the disbelieving Quraish, who waxed proud of their blood relationship with him, but also for the Muslims who had believed in Allāh and His Messenger. By narrating this event they were told what is the essence and the real spirit of Islam, and how a true believer should be ready to sacrifice his all for the pleasure and approval of Allāh after he has adopted it as his Faith and Creed.

The last verses of the Surah were not only a warning for the disbelievers but also a good news for the believers who were passing through highly unfavourable and discouraging conditions on account of their supporting and following the Holy Prophet. In these verses they were given the good news that they should not be disheartened at the hardships and difficulties they had to encounter in the beginning, for in the end they alone would attain dominance, and the standard bearers of falsehood, who appeared to be dominant at the time would be overwhelmed and vanquished at their hands. A few years later the turn the events took, proved that it was not an empty consolation but an inevitable reality of which they had been foretold in order to strengthen their hearts.

PrivacyCopyrightContribute

Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools

Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more

Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen

Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections

© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com

About Surah As-Saaffat | Quran – Amrayn

