

TrendingCollectionsBookmarksQuran trackerNew

Sign inSign up

Quran
Hadith
Articles
About

Home
Quran
About Surah Fatir

About Surah Fatir
Surah Fatir is the 35th surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means Originator. It has 45 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 22.
Quick summary
Surah #

35

Meaning

Originator

No. of ayaat

45

Revelation place

Makkah

Revelation order

43

Rukūʿ[1]

5 (Ayaah 7, 14, 26, 37, 45)

Hizb break(s)

2 (Ayaah 14, 40)

Juz / paara[2]

Juz 22 (Ayaat 1-45)

Manzil[3]

5

Page^

434 - 439(Open)

Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/35

[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1653/<default>=w

Introduction

This Meccan sûrah demonstrates Allāh's infinite power through the marvels of His creation, in contrast with the powerlessness of the pagan idols. The Prophet ﷺ is consoled by the fact that many prophets were denied before him. The believers are promised of a great reward in Paradise (verses 31-35), while the disbelievers are warned of a scathing punishment in Hell (verses 36-39). All these themes are echoed in the next sûrah.

Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān

Name
The word Fatir of the first very verse is the title given to this Surah, which simply means that it is a Surah in which the word Fatir has occurred. The other name is Al Malaika, which also occurs in the first verse.
Period of Revelation
The internal evidence of the style shows that the period of the revelation of this Surah is probably the middle Makkan period, and especially that part of it, when antagonism had grown quite strong and every sort of mischief was being adopted to frustrate the mission of the Holy Prophet.
Theme and Subject Matter
The discourse is meant to warn and reprove the people of Makkah and their chiefs for their antagonistic attitude that they had then adopted towards the Holy Prophet's message of Tauhid, like a well wisher, and also to admonish them like a teacher, as if to say: "O foolish people, the way to which this Prophet is calling you is to your own advantage. Your anger, your tricks and machinations against it and your conspiracies and designs to frustrate it are not directed against him but against your own selves. If you do not listen to him, you will be harming your own selves, not him. Just consider and ponder over what he says: there is nothing wrong in it. He repudiates shirk. If you look around carefully, you will yourself realize that there is no basis for shirk in the world. He presents the doctrine of Tauhid. If you use your common sense, you will come to the conclusion that there is no being, beside Allāh, Creator of the Universe, which might possess divine attributes and powers and authority. He tells you that you have not been created to be irresponsible in this world, but you have to render an account of your deeds before your God, and that there is life after the life of this world when everyone will meet the consequences of what he has done here. If you think a little you will see that your doubts and your astonishment about it are absolutely baseless. Don't you see the phenomenon of the reproduction of creation day and night. How can then your own recreation be impossible for that God Who created you from an insignificant sperm drop? Doesn't your own intellect testify that the good and the evil cannot be alike? Then think and judge for yourselves as to what is reasonable : should the good and the evil meet with the same fate and end up in the dust, or should the good be requited with good and the evil with evil? Now, if you do not admit and acknowledge these rational and reasonable things and do not abandon your false gods, and wish to continue living only as irresponsible people in the world, the Prophet will not lose anything. It is you yourselves only who will suffer the consequences. The Prophet's only responsibility was to make the truth plain to you, which he has done".

In this connection, the Holy Prophet has been consoled again and again, as if to say: "When you are doing full justice to the preaching of your mission, you do not incur any responsibility for those who persist in their error and do not accept and follow the right way". Furthermore, he has also been consoled to the effect "You should neither grieve on account of those who do not want to believe, nor consume yourself with the thought of how to bring them to the rights path. Instead of this, you should pay your full attention to those who are inclined to listen to you".

The believers also, in this connection, have been given the good news so that they may feel strengthened and encouraged and remain steadfast on the path of the truth with full faith in the promises made by Allāh.

PrivacyCopyrightContribute

Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools

Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more

Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen

Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections

© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com

About Surah Fatir | Quran – Amrayn
