
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah As-Saff
About Surah As-Saff
Surah As-Saff is the 61st surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Ranks. It has 14 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 28.
Quick summary
Surah #
61
Meaning
The Ranks
No. of ayaat
14
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
109
Rukūʿ[1]
2 (Ayaah 9, 14)
Hizb break(s)
0
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 28 (Ayaat 1-14)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
551 - 552(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/61
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1679/<default>=w
Introduction
The believers are instructed to strive in Allāh's cause in solid battle formations (verse 4), hence the name of this Medinian sûrah. The disciples of Jesus, who stood up for Allāh, are cited as an example for the believers to emulate. The believers are reassured that the truth will prevail despite the disbelievers' unrelenting plots against it. Those who stand up for Allāh are promised great rewards in both worlds. The next sûrah provides more instructions to the believers.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameThe Surah derives its name from the sentence yuqatiluna fi sabil-i-hi saff-an of verse 4; thereby implying that it is a Surah in which the word saff occurred.
Period of RevelationIt could not be known from any reliable tradition, but a study of its subject-matter shows that this Surah probably was sent down in the period closely following the Battle of Uhud, for by reading between the lines perceives a clear description of the conditions that prevailed in that period.
Theme and Subject MatterIts theme is to exhort the Muslims to adopt sincerity in Faith and to struggle with their lives in the cause of Allāh. It is addressed to the Muslims with weak faith as well as those who had entered Islam with a false profession of the Faith and also those who were sincere in their profession. Some verses are addressed to the first two groups, some only to the hypocrites, and some only to the sincere Muslims. The style itself shows where one particular group has been addressed and where the other.
At the outset the believers have been warned to the effect; "Allāh indeed hates those people who say one thing and do another, and He indeed loves those who fight in the cause of the Truth, standing like a solid structure, against the enemies of Allāh."'
In vv. 5-7 the people of the Holy Prophet's community have been warned that their attitude towards their Messenger and their Religion should not be like the attitude that the Israelites had adopted towards the Prophets Moses and Jesus (peace be upon them). In spite of acknowledging the Prophet Moses as a Messenger of God they continued to malign him as long as he lived, and in spite of witnessing clear signs from the Prophet Jesus they denied him without any hesitation. Consequently, the Israelites became perverse, incapable of benefiting from divine guidance. This is certainly not an enviable state which another nation should imitate.
Then, in vv. 8-9 a proclamation has been made with the challenge: "The Jews and the Christians, and the hypocrites, who are conspiring with them, may try however hard they may to extinguish this Light of Allāh, it will shine forth and spread in the world in all its fullness, and the Religion brought by the true Messenger of Allāh shall prevail over every other religion however hateful it may be to the pagans and polytheists.
In vv. 10-13, the believers have been told that the way to success both here and in the Hereafter is only one: that they should believe in Allāh and His Messenger sincerely and should exert their utmost in Allāh's Way with their selves and their wealth. As a reward for this they will earn immunity from Allāh's punishment, forgiveness of their sins and the eternal Paradise in the Hereafter, and will be blessed with Allāh's good pleasure, succour and victory in the world.
In conclusion, the believers have been exhorted to the effect that just as the disciples of the Prophet Jesus had helped him in the cause of Allāh, so should they also become "helpers of Allāh", so that they too are blessed with the same kind of good pleasure and approval of Allāh as had been the believers before them against the disbelievers.
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.comAbout Surah As-Saff | Quran – Amrayn

