
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah Al-Jumua
About Surah Al-Jumua
Surah Al-Jumua is the 62nd surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Congregation. It has 11 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Medina i.e., after Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 28.
Quick summary
Surah #
62
Meaning
The Congregation
No. of ayaat
11
Revelation place
 Medina
Revelation order
110
Rukūʿ[1]
2 (Ayaah 8, 11)
Hizb break(s)
1 (Ayaah 1)
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 28 (Ayaat 1-11)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
553 - 554(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/62
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1680/<default>=w
Introduction
This sûrah and the previous one have much in common. Both start by praising Allāh. Those among the Jews who harmed Moses ﷺ , according to the previous sûrah (61:5), are criticized here for not upholding the Torah (verse 5). Since the disciples of Jesus ﷺ are commended in the previous sûrah (61:14), the companions of Muḥammad ﷺ are honoured in this sûrah (verses 2-4). The Prophet ﷺ is foretold by Jesus ﷺ in the previous sûrah (61:6) and is presented in this sûrah as Allāh's favour to the believers. Similar to the previous sûrah, some instructions are given to the believers-this time, regarding the Friday congregation (verse 9), which gives this Medinian sûrah its name.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameIt is derived from the sentence idha nudiya-lis-salat-i min-yaum-il-Jumu'ati of verse 9. Although in this Surah injunctions about the Friday congregational Prayer also have been given, yet "Jumu'ah" is not the title of its subject-matter as a whole, but this name too, like the names of other Surahs, is only a symbolic title.
Period of RevelationThe period of the revelation of the first section (vv. 1-8) is A.H. 7, and probably it was sent down on the occasion of the conquest of Khaiber or soon after it. Bukhari, Muslim, Tirmidhi, Nasa'i and Ibn Jarir have related on the authority of Hadrat Abu Hurairah that he and other Companions were sitting in the Holy Prophet's assembly when these verses were revealed. About Abu Hurairah it is confirmed historically that he entered Islam after the truce of Hudaibiyah and before the conquest of Khaiber, and Khaiber was conquered, according to Ibn Hisham, in Muharram, and, according to Ibn Sa'd, in Jamadi al-Awwal, A.H. 7. Thus presumably Allāh might have sent down these verses, addressing the Jews, when their last stronghold had fallen to the Muslims, or these might have been revealed when, seeing the fate of Khaiber, all the Jewish settlements of northern Hijaz had surrendered to the Islamic government.
The second section (vv. 9-11) was sent down shortly after the emigration, for the Holy Prophet (upon whom be Allāh's peace) had established the Friday congregational Prayer on the 5th day after his arrival at Madinah. The incident that has been referred to in the last verse of this section must have occurred at a time when the people had not yet received full training in the etiquette of religious congregations.
Theme and Subject MatterAs we have explained above, the two sections of this Surah were sent down in two different periods. That is why their themes as well as their audiences are different. Although there is a kind of harmony between them on account of which they have been put together in one Surah, yet we should understand their themes separately before we consider the question of their harmony.
The first section was sent down at a time when all Jewish efforts to obstruct the message of Islam during the past six years had failed. First, in Madinah as many as three of their powerful tribes had done whatever they could to frustrate the mission of the Holy Prophet, with the result that one of the tribes was completely exterminated and the other two were exiled. Then by intrigue and conspiracy they brought many of the Arab tribes together to advance on Madinah, but in the Battle of the Trench they were all repulsed. After this, Khaiber had become their stronghold, where a large number of the Jews expelled from Madinah also had taken refuge. At the time these verses were revealed, that too was taken without any extraordinary effort, and the Jews at their own request agreed to live there as tenants of the Muslims. After this final defeat the Jewish power in Arabia came to an end. Then, Wad-il-Qura, Fadak Taima', Tabuk, all surrendered one after the other, so much so that all Arabian Jews became subdued to the same Islam which they were not prepared to tolerate before. This was the occasion when Allāh Almighty once again addressed them in this Surah, and probably this was the last and final address that was directed to them in the Qur'an. In this they have been reminded of three things:
"You refused to believe in this Messenger only because he was born among a people whom you contemptuously call the "gentiles". You were under the false delusion that the Messenger must necessarily belong to your own community. You seemed to have been convinced that anyone who claimed to be a prophet from outside your community, must be an impostor for this office had been reserved for your race, and a messenger could never be raised among the "gentiles". But among the same gentiles Allāh has raised a Messenger who is reciting His Book in front of your very eyes, is purifying souls, and showing the Right Way to the people whose misdeeds are well known to you . This is Allāh's bounty, which He may bestow on anyone He may please. You have no monopoly over it so that He may bestow it over whomever you may please and may withhold it from whomever you may desire it to be withheld."
"You had been made bearers of the Torah, but you did not understand your responsibility for it nor discharged it as you should have. You are like the donkey which is loaded with books, and which does not know what burden it is bearing. Rather you are worse than the donkey, for the donkey is devoid of sense, but you are intellligent. You not only shirk your responsibliity of being bearers of Allāhs book, but you do not even hesitate to deny Allāh's revelations deliberately. Yet, you are under the delusion that you are Allāh's favourites and the blessing of apostleship has been reserved for you alone. More than that, you seem to entertain the notion that whether you fulfil the demands of Allāh's message or not, Allāh in any case is bound not to make any other than you the bearer of His message."
"If you really were Allāh's favourites and you were sure of having a place of honour and high rank reserved with Him, you would not have feared death so much as to prefer a life of disgrace to death. It is only because of this fear of death that you have suffered humiliation after humiiliation during the past few years. This condition is by itself a proof that you are fully conscious of your misdeeds, and your conscience is aware that if you die with these misdeeds, you will meet with a greater disgrace before Allāh in the Hereafter than in this world."
This is the subject matter of the first section. The second section that was sent down many years later, was appended to this Surah because in it Allāh has bestowed Friday on the Muslims as against the Sabbath of the Jews, and Allāh wanted to warn the Muslims not to treat their Friday as the Jews had treated their Sabbath. This section was sent down on an occasion when a trade caravan arrived in Madinah right at the time of the Friday congregational service and hearing its din and drum the audience, except for 12 men, left the Prophet's Mosque and rushed out to the caravan, although the Holy Prophet (upon whom be Allāh's peace) at that time was delivering the Sermon. Thereupon it was enjoined that after the call is sounded for the Friday Prayer all trade and business and other occupations become forbidden. The believers should then suspend every kind of transaction and hasten to the remembrance of Allāh. However, when the Prayer is over, they have the right to disperse in the land to resume their normal occupations. This section could be made an independent Surah in view of the commandments that it contains about the congregational service on Friday, and could also be included in some other Surah, but, instead, it has been included here particularly in the verses in which the Jews have been warned of the causes of their evil end. Its wisdom in our opinion is the same as we have explained above.
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.comAbout Surah Al-Jumua | Quran – Amrayn

