
About Surah Al-Maarij | Quran – Amrayn
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah Al-Maarij
About Surah Al-Maarij
Surah Al-Maarij is the 70th surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Ways of Ascent. It has 44 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 29.
Quick summary
Surah #
70
Meaning
The Ways of Ascent
No. of ayaat
44
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
79
Rukūʿ[1]
2 (Ayaah 35, 44)
Hizb break(s)
1 (Ayaah 18)
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 29 (Ayaat 1-44)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
568 - 569(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/70
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1688/<default>=w
Introduction
This Meccan sûrah, which takes its name from verse 3, condemns the pagans for ridiculing the Day of Judgment (verses 1-2) and the Prophet (verses 36-37). The truth of the Hour is reaffirmed, along with the horrors that will ensue. The qualities of the people of Hell and the people of Paradise are described (verses 16-35). The Prophet ﷺ is reassured, while the pagans are warned-both themes are embedded in the story of Noah ﷺ in the next sûrah.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameThe Surah takes its name from the word dhil Ma'arij in verse 3.
Period of RevelationThe subject matter bears evidence that this Surah too was sent down in conditions closely resembling those under which Surah Al Haaqqah was sent down.
Theme and Subject MatterIt admonishes and gives warning to the disbelievers who made fun of the news about Resurrection and the Hereafter, and Hell and Heaven, and challenged the Holy Prophet (upon whom be peace) to cause Resurrection with which he threatened them to take place if what he said was true and they had become worthy of the punishment in Hell by denying it. The whole Surah is meant to answer this denial.
The Surah opens with words to the effect: "A demander has demanded a torment, the torment which must befall the deniers; and when it takes place, there will be none to prevent it, but it will take place at its own appointed time. Allāh has His own way of doing things, but He is not unjust. Therefore, have patience, O Prophet, at what they say. They think it is far off, but We see it as near at hand."
Then it is said:"Resurrection, which they desire to be hastened out of jest and fun, is terrible, and when it comes, it will cause great distress to the culprits. At that time they will even be prepared to give away their wives and children and their nearest kinsfolk in ransom to escape the punishment, but they will not be able to escape it.
Then the people have been warned to the effect; "On that Day the destinies of men will be decided strictly on the basis of their belief and their conduct. Those who turn away from the Truth in the world and amass wealth and withhold it from the needy, will be doomed to Hell; and those who fear the punishment of God here, believe in the Hereafter, keep up the Prayer, discharge the rights of the needy out of their wealth, strictly avoid immoral and wicked deeds, practise honesty in all their dealings, fulfil their pledges and trust and bear true witness, will have a place of honour in Paradise."
In conclusion, the disbelievers of Makkah who rushed in upon the Holy Prophet (upon whom be peace) from every side as soon as they saw him, in order to make fun of him, have been warned to the effect: "If you do not believe, Allāh will replace you by other people who will be better than you", and the Holy Prophet (upon whom be peace) has been consoled, so as to say: "Do not take to heart their mockery and jesting; leave them to indulge in their idle talk and foolish conduct if they are bent upon experiencing the disgrace and humiliation of the Resurrection; they will themselves see their evil end."'
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com
