
About Surah An-Naaziat | Quran – Amrayn
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah An-Naaziat
About Surah An-Naaziat
Surah An-Naaziat is the 79th surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means Those Who Yearn. It has 46 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 30.
Quick summary
Surah #
79
Meaning
Those Who Yearn
No. of ayaat
46
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
81
Rukūʿ[1]
2 (Ayaah 26, 46)
Hizb break(s)
0
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 30 (Ayaat 1-46)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
583 - 584(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/79
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1697/<default>=w
Introduction
This Meccan sûrah emphasizes that the Day of Judgment is inevitable and its time is known only to Allāh. The destruction of Pharaoh is cited as a deterrent to the disbelievers.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameIt is derived from the word wan-nazi'at with which the Surah opens.
Period of RevelationAccording to Hadrat Abdullah bin Abbas, this Surah was sent down after Surah An-Naba. Its subject matter also testifies that it belongs to the earliest period at Makkah.
Theme and Subject MatterIts theme is affirmation of Resurrection and the life hereafter; it also warns of the consequences of belying the Messenger of God.
The Surah opens with oaths sworn by the angels who take the soul at deaths and those who hasten to carry out Allāh's Commands, and those who conduct the affairs of the universe according to Divine Will, to assure that the Resurrection will certainly come to pass and the second life after death will certainly take place. For the angels who are employed to pluck out the soul today can also be employed to restore the soul tomorrow, and the angels who promptly execute Allāh's Commands and conduct the affairs of the universe today can also upset the order of the universe tomorrow by orders of the same God and can also bring about a new order.
After this the people have been told, so as to say: "This work which you regard as absolutely impossible, is not any difficult for Allāh, for which He may have to make lengthy preparations. Just a single jolt will upset this system of the world and a second jolt will be enough to cause you to appear as living beings in the new world. At that time the same people who were wont to deny it, would be trembling with fear and seeing with awe struck eyes all that they thought was impossible.
Then, relating the story of the Prophet Moses and Pharaoh briefly, the people have been warned to the effect: "You know full well what fate the Pharaoh met in consequence of belying the Messenger and rejecting the guidance brought by him and endeavouring to defeat his mission by trickery and deceit. If you do not learn any lesson from it and do not change your ways and attitude accordingly, you also will have to meet the same fate.
Then, in vv. 27-13, arguments have been given for the Hereafter and life after death. In this regard, the deniers have been asked the question: "Is your resurrection a more difficult task or the creation of the huge Universe which spreads around you to infinite distances with myriads of its stars and planets? Your recreation cannot be difficult for the God for Whom this was an easy task. Thus, after presenting, in a single sentence, a decisive argument for the possibility of the Hereafter, attention has been drawn to the earth and its provisions that have been arranged in it for the sustenance of man and animal and of which everything testifies that it has been created with great wisdom for fulfilling some special purpose. Pointing to this the question has been left for the intellect of man to ponder for itself and form the opinion whether calling man to account after having delegated authority and responsibilities to a creature like him in this wise system would be more in keeping with the demands of wisdom, or that he should die after committing all sorts of misdeeds in the world and should perish and mix in the dust for ever and should never be called to account as to how he employed the authority and fulfilled the responsibilities entrusted to him. Instead of discussing this question, in vv. 34-41, it has been said: "When the Hereafter is established, men's eternal future will be determined on the criterion as to which of them rebelled against his God transgressing the bounds of service and made the material benefits and pleasures his objective of life and which of them feared standing before his Lord and reflrained from fulfilling the unlawful desires of the self." This by itself provides the right answer to the above question to every such person who considers it honestly, free from stubbornness. For the only rational, logical and moral demand of giving authority and entrusting responsibilities to man in the world is that he should be called to account on this very basis ultimately and rewarded or punished accordingly.
In conclusion, the question of the disbelievers of Makkah as to when Resurrection will take place, has been answered. They asked the Holy Prophet this question over and over again. In reply it has been said that the knowledge of the time of its occurrence rests with Allāh alone. The Messenger is there only to give the warning that it will certainly come. Now whoever wishes may mend his ways, fearing its coming, and whoever wishes may behave and conduct himself as he likes, fearless of its coming. When the appointed time comes, those very people who loved the life of this world and regarded its pleasures as the only object of life, would feel that they had stayed in the world only for an hour or so. Then they will realize how utterly they had ruined their future for ever for the sake of the short lived pleasures of the world.
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com
