
About Surah At-Takwir | Quran – Amrayn
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah At-Takwir
About Surah At-Takwir
Surah At-Takwir is the 81st surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Folding Up. It has 29 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 30.
Quick summary
Surah #
81
Meaning
The Folding Up
No. of ayaat
29
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
7
Rukūʿ[1]
1 (Ayaah 29)
Hizb break(s)
0
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 30 (Ayaat 1-29)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
586(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/81
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1699/<default>=w
Introduction
This Meccan sûrah describes some of the apocalyptic events leading up to the Day of Judgment, stating that everyone will meet the consequences of their deeds. The sûrah closes by emphasizing that the Qurʾān is Allāh's revealed Word and that the Prophet ﷺ is not insane, as the pagans claim.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameIt is derived from the word kuwwirat in the first verse. Kuwwirat is passive voice from takvir in the past tense, and means "that which is folded up", thereby implying that it is a Surah in which the "folding up" has been mentioned:
Period of RevelationThe subject matter and the style clearly show that it is one of the earliest Surahs to be revealed at Makkah.
Theme and Subject MatterIt has two themes: the Hereafter and the institution of Apostleship.
In the first six verses the first stage of the Resurrection has been mentioned when the sun will lose its light, the stars will scatter, the mountains will be uprooted and will disperse, the people will become heedless of their dearest possessions, the beasts of the jungle will be stupefied and will gather together, and the seas will boil up. Then in the next seven verses the second stage has been described when the souls will be reunited with the bodies, the records will be laid open, the people will be called to account for their crimes, the heavens will be unveiled, and Hell and Heaven will be brought into full view. After depicting the Hereafter thus, man has been left to ponder his own self and deeds, saying: "Then each man shall himself know what he has brought with him."
After this the theme of Apostleship has been taken up. In this the people of Makkah have been addressed, as if to say "Whatever Muḥammad (upon whom be Allāh's peace and blessings) is presenting before you, is not the bragging of a madman, nor an evil suggestion inspired by Satan, but the word of a noble, exalted and trustworthy messenger sent by God, whom Muḥammad (upon whom be Allāh's peace and blessings) has seen with his own eyes in the bright horizon of the clear sky in broad day light. Whither then are you going having turned away from this teaching?"
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.com
