
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah Al-Infitar
About Surah Al-Infitar
Surah Al-Infitar is the 82nd surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Cleaving. It has 19 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 30.
Quick summary
Surah #
82
Meaning
The Cleaving
No. of ayaat
19
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
82
Rukūʿ[1]
1 (Ayaah 19)
Hizb break(s)
1 (Ayaah 1)
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 30 (Ayaat 1-19)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
587(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/82
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1700/<default>=w
Introduction
Like the previous sûrah, this Meccan sûrah describes some of the horrors of the Day of Judgment. The disbelievers are criticized for being ungrateful to their Creator. Everyone-including the cheaters mentioned in the next sûrah-will be held accountable for their deeds, which are perfectly recorded by vigilant angels.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameIt is derived from the word infatarat in the first verse. Infitar is an infinitive which means to burst or split asunder, thereby implying that it is the Surah in which the splitting asunder of the sky has been mentioned.
Period of RevelationThis Surah and the Surah At-Takwir closely resemble each other in their subject matter. This shows that both were sent down in about the same period.
Theme and Subject MatterIts theme is the Hereafter. According to a tradition related in Musnad Ahmad, Tirmidhi, Ibn al-Mundhir, Tabarani, Hakim and Ibn Marduyah, on the authority of Hadrat Abdullah bin Umar, the Holy Messenger (upon whom be peace) said: "The one who wants that he should see the Resurrection Day as one would see it with one's eyes, should read Surah At-Takwir, Surah Al-Infitar and Surah Al-Ishiqaq"
In this Surah first the Resurection Day has been described and it is said that when it occurs, every person will see whatever he has done in the world. After this, man has been asked to ponder the question: "O man, what has deluded you into thinking that the God, Who brought you into being and by Whose favor and bounty you possess the finest body, limbs and features among all creatures, is only bountiful and not just?His being bountiful and generous does not mean that you should become fearless of His justice." Then, man has been warned, so as to say: "Do not remain involved in any misunderstanding. Your complete record is being prepared. There are trustworthy writers who are writing down whatever you do." In conclusion, it has been forcefully stated that the Day of Resurrection will surely take place when the righteous shall enjoy every kind of bliss in Paradise and the wicked shall be punished in Hell. On that day no one shall avail anyone anything. All powers of judgement shall be with Allāh.
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.comAbout Surah Al-Infitar | Quran – Amrayn

