
Trending
Collections
Bookmarks
Quran trackerNew
Sign inSign up
Quran
Hadith
Articles
About
Home
Quran
About Surah At-Tariq
About Surah At-Tariq
Surah At-Tariq is the 86th surah (chapter) of The Glorious Quran. Name of the surah means The Nightcommer. It has 17 ayaat (verses) and was revealed in the holy city of Makkah i.e., before Prophet ﷺ migrated to the city of Medina. This surah can be found in juz / paara 30.
Quick summary
Surah #
86
Meaning
The Nightcommer
No. of ayaat
17
Revelation place
 Makkah
Revelation order
36
Rukūʿ[1]
1 (Ayaah 17)
Hizb break(s)
0
Juz / paara[2]
Juz 30 (Ayaat 1-17)
Manzil[3]
7
Page^
591(Open)
Link
https://amrayn.com/quran/86
[1] In some publications, a rukūʿ is a section or passage grouping marked with the symbol (ع).
[2] A juz is one of the 30 equal parts of the Qur’an used to make daily reading easier.
[3] A manzil is a way of dividing the Qur’an into 7 parts for weekly recitation.
^ Qur'an printed at King Fahd Glorious Quran Printing Complex in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, Saudi Arabia.
ae=1_1704/<default>=w
Introduction
In this Meccan sûrah, an oath is made that whatever a person does is recorded by vigilant angels and that the Resurrection is as easy for Allāh as the first creation. Another oath is made that the Qurʾān is a decisive message, and a warning is given to those who plot against Allāh.
Details from Tafheem-ul-Qurʾān
NameThe Surah taken its name from the word at-tariq in its first verse.
Period of RevelationThe style of its subject matter resembles that of the earliest Surahs revealed at Makkah, but this surah was sent down at a stage when the disbelievers of Makkah were employing all sorts of devices and plans to defeat and frustrate the message of the Qurʾān and Muḥammad (upon whom be Allāh's peace and blessings).
Theme and Subject MatterIt discuses two themes: first that man has to appear before God after death; second, that the Qurʾān is a decisive Word which no plan or device of the disbelievers can defeat or frustrate.
First of all, the stars of the heavens have been cited as an evidence that there is nothing in the universe which may continue to exist and survive without guardian over it. Then man has been asked to consider his own self as to how he has been brought into existence from a mere sperm drop and shaped into a living human being. Then it has been said that the God, Who has so brought him into existence, has certainly the power to create him once again, and this resurrection will be for the purpose to subject to scrutiny all the secrets of man which remained hidden in the world. At that time, man will neither be able to escape the consequences of his deeds by his own power, nor will anyone else come to his rescue.
In conclusion, it has been pointed out that just as the falling of rain from the sky and the sprouting of plants and crops from the earth is no child's play but a serious task, so also the truths expressed in the Qurʾān are no jest but a firm and unchangable reality. The disbelievers are involved in the misunderstanding that their plans and devices will defeat the invitation of the Qurʾān, but they do not know that Allāh too is devising a plan which will bring to nought all their scheming and planning. Then in one sentence the discourse has been summed up, with a word of consolation to the Holy Prophet (upon whom be peace) and a tacit warning to the disbelievers, saying: "Have patience for a while: let the disbelievers do their worst. Before long they will themselves realize whether they have been able to defeat the Qurʾān by their scheming or the Qurʾān has dominated them in the very place where they are exerting their utmost to defeat it."
PrivacyCopyrightContribute
Quran
Surah info
Read Qur'an
Quran study tools
Hadith
Trending
Saheeh al-Bukhari
Saheeh Muslim
Riyaad as-Saliheen
Browse more
Articles
Basics
Aqeedah (creed)
The hereafter
Fiqh (jurisprudence)
Unseen
Personal
Quran trackerNew
Legacy revision
Bookmarks
Collections
© 2014-2026 Amrayn.comAbout Surah At-Tariq | Quran – Amrayn

